---
layout: post
title: "Information Geometry"
modified:
categories: Math
excerpt: "Introduction"
tags: [IG, Math, ML]
image:
  feature:
comments: true
date: 2020-03-16
---
Information Sciences is an emerging area with wide applications ranging from Probability & Statistics, Machine Learning(ML), Artificial Intelligence(AI), Signal Processing, Mathematical Programming etc,. It seeks methods to distil information from data to models. It deals with a manifold of probability distributions from a geometric point of view. Since probability distributions are used in many problems in optimization, ML, Vision, Statistical inference, Neural Networks, information geometry provides a strong tool to many areas of information sciences and engineering.

Information geometry emerged from study on the invariant geometrical structure of a family of probability distributions. Invariance is a property of mathematical objects which remains unchanged upon an operation or  symmetric transformation. For Example, in case of circles the ratio of perimeter and diameter (pi) remains unchanged with varying diameter values (scaling). Similarly there is the concept of Equivariance which generalized the concept of invariance. That is applying transformation and applying function would produce the same result as computing function and then applying transformation. 

Why is the geometric approach chosen? Geometry allows us to study invariance and equivariance in a coordinate-free approach. Geometry gives us more intuitive reasoning about the problems. All the figures can be visualised and can be thought of purely abstract objects.

This blog series would majorly focus on understanding the applications of Information Geometry in fields like Statistical Inference, Machine Learning, Control Theory, Optimization, Neural Networks, Deep Learning etc,. 
The understanding of the applications of Information geometry in these fields requires familiarity of Differential geometry which includes concepts of differential, integral calculus, Linear algebra, multilinear algebra, geometry covering concepts like Riemannian geometry, different divergences, metrics and connections. I would be adding these concepts in my other blog and refer accordingly. 
