---
layout: post
title: "Information Geometry - Intro I"
modified:
categories: Math
excerpt: "Introduction"
tags: [IG, Math, ML, AI]
image:
  feature:
comments: true
date: 2020-03-28
---

[Information Geometry](https://greeshmab.github.io/math/IG-Intro/).

The building blocks of IG start from invariant geometric structure of family of probability distributions. This forms a geometric manifold of probability distributions family $S=\{p(x,\theta)\}$ with $\theta$ as a n-dimensional vector parameter. Invariance is a property which allows an object to remain unchanged after an operation or transformation on the object. An invariant structure that can be used to study the distribution family is Riemannian Manifold with Dual Affine connections. The properties of the Riemannian manifold are used to understand various applications of information sciences like Neural Networks, Systems theory, AI, Vision, Optimization, Statistics etc.,

Among many families of probability distributions, Gaussian distribution plays a crucial role because it fits many natural phenomena. It can be represented as a curved Remanian submanifold of 2 dimensions. Here $\theta$ is a 2d vector - $(\mu, \sigma)$.
$S= \{p(x;\mu, \sigma)\}$;

$p(x;\mu, \sigma)={\frac {1}{\sqrt {2\pi}\sigma}}e^{-{\frac {1}{2}}\left({\frac {x-\mu }{\sigma }}\right)^{2}}$

A Riemannian manifold is a real and smooth manifold with inner product on a tangent space that varies smoothly between two points(invariant). A smooth D-dimensional manifold locally behaves as an euclidean space. All the geometric objects in this space are generally coordinate free and can be easily transitioned to any local coordinate system of an [atlas](https://greeshmab.github.io/math/IG-Basics/) of charts . The a [$C^{k}$](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differentiability_class)-manifold is a topological manifold with an atlas whose transition maps are all k-times continuously differentiable. $C^{\infty}$ manifold is called a smooth manifold. On any smooth manifold, we can define two independent structures:

1.  [A Metric Tensor g](https://greeshmab.github.io/math/IG-Basics/) 
The metric tensor g induces on each tangent plane Tp an inner product space that allows one to measure vector magnitudes (vector “lengths”) and angles/orthogonality between vectors.

2.  [Affine Connection](https://greeshmab.github.io/math/IG-Basics/)
Affine connection is a geometric object on a smooth manifold that connects nearby tangent spaces. It permets tangent vector fields to be differentiated as if they were functions on the manifold with values in a fixed vector space.

  
  
