---
layout: post
title: "Information Geometry Basics"
modified:
categories: Math
excerpt: "Introduction"
tags: [IG, Math, ML]
image:
  feature:
comments: true
date: 2020-03-24
---

### Riemannian Geometry

Riemannian Geometry is a branch of differential geometry that studies Riemannian Manifolds,smooth manifolds with a Reimannian metric i.e inner product on the tangent space at each point that varies smoothly from point to point.

A Riemannian metric g on a smooth manifold M is a smoothly chosen inner product $g_x$ : T*M × T*M → R on each of the tangent spaces T*M of M. In other words, for each x ∈ M, g = $g_x$ satisfies

(1). g(u,v) = g(v,u) for all $u,v ∈ T*M

(2). g(u,u) ≥ 0 for all u ∈ T*M

(3). g(u,u) = 0 if and only if u = 0

Furthermore, g is smooth in the sense that for any smooth vector fields X and Y , the function $x → g_x(X_x, Y_x)$ is smooth.


### Affine Connection

Affine connection is a geometric object on a smooth manifold that connects nearby tangent spaces. It permets tangent vector fields to be differentiated as if they were functions on the manifold with values in a fixed vector space. 

Since straight lines are a concept in affine geometry, affine connections define a generalized notion of (parametrized) straight lines on any affine manifold, called affine geodesics. Abstractly, a parametric curve $\gamma$ $: I → M$ is a straight line if its tangent vector remains parallel and equipollent with itself when it is transported along $\gamma$. 

A geodesic is a curve representing in some sense the shortest path between two points in a surface, or more generally in a Riemannian manifold. It is a generalization of the notion of a "straight line" to a more general setting.


### Legendre Transformation

A Legendre transformation is an involutive transformation on a real valued convex-functions of one real variable.

For sufficiently smooth functions on the real line, the Legendre transform f* of a function f can be specified, up to an additive constant, by the condition that the functions' first derivatives are inverse functions of each other.


### Lie Bracket

The Lie bracket of vector fields, also known as the Jacobi–Lie bracket or the commutator of vector fields, is an operator that assigns to any two [vector fields](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_field)  X and Y on a [smooth manifold](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smooth_manifold) M a third vector field denoted [X, Y].

Conceptually, the Lie bracket [X, Y] is the derivative of Y along the [flow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_flow) generated by X, and is sometimes denoted ("Lie derivative of Y along X"). This generalizes to the [Lie derivative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_derivative) of any [tensor field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tensor_field) along the flow generated by X.
